README.md, before:

# PortKiller

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![macOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-15.0%2B-brightgreen)](https://www.apple.com/macos/)
[![Swift](https://img.shields.io/badge/Swift-6.0-orange)](https://swift.org)
[![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/productdevbook/port-killer)](https://github.com/productdevbook/port-killer/releases)

A native macOS menu bar application for finding and killing processes running on open ports. Perfect for developers who need to quickly free up ports like 3000, 8080, 5173, etc.

<p align="center">
  <img src=".github/assets/port-kill.gif" alt="PortKiller Demo" width="400">
</p>

## Features

- **Menu Bar Integration** - Lives in your menu bar, no Dock icon clutter
- **Port Discovery** - Automatically finds all listening TCP ports
- **Process Info** - Shows process name and PID for each port
- **Quick Kill** - One-click process termination
- **Kill All** - Terminate all listed processes at once
- **Auto-Refresh** - Updates port list every 5 seconds
- **Search** - Filter by port number or process name
- **Graceful Kill** - Tries SIGTERM first, then SIGKILL if needed

## Requirements

- macOS 15.0+ (Sequoia)
- Apple Silicon Mac (M1/M2/M3/M4)

## Installation

### Download (Recommended)

Download the latest DMG from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/productdevbook/port-killer/releases):

1. Download `PortKiller-vX.X.X-arm64.dmg`
2. Open the DMG file
3. Drag PortKiller to your Applications folder
4. Launch from Applications or Spotlight

### Build from Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/productdevbook/port-killer.git
cd port-killer

# Build the app bundle
./scripts/build-app.sh

# Copy to Applications
cp -r .build/release/PortKiller.app /Applications/

# Launch
open /Applications/PortKiller.app
```

## Usage

1. Click the network icon in the menu bar
2. See all open ports with their process names
3. Click the ✕ button to kill a specific process
4. Use "Kill All" to terminate all listed processes
5. Search by port number or process name

## How It Works

PortKiller uses `lsof` to find all processes listening on TCP ports:

```bash
lsof -iTCP -sTCP:LISTEN -P -n
```

When you kill a process, it first tries a graceful termination (SIGTERM), then forces it (SIGKILL) if needed.

## Development

```bash
# Debug build
swift build

# Release build
swift build -c release

# Run directly
swift run PortKiller

# Open in Xcode
open Package.swift
```

### Project Structure

```
Sources/
├── PortKillerApp.swift       # App entry point
├── Managers/
│   ├── PortManager.swift     # State management
│   └── PortScanner.swift     # Port scanning (lsof)
├── Models/
│   └── PortInfo.swift        # Data model
└── Views/
    └── MenuBarView.swift     # Main UI
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) before submitting a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

docs: add macOS security notice and launch instructions to README

README.md, after:

# PortKiller

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)
[![macOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/macOS-15.0%2B-brightgreen)](https://www.apple.com/macos/)
[![Swift](https://img.shields.io/badge/Swift-6.0-orange)](https://swift.org)
[![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/productdevbook/port-killer)](https://github.com/productdevbook/port-killer/releases)

A native macOS menu bar application for finding and killing processes running on open ports. Perfect for developers who need to quickly free up ports like 3000, 8080, 5173, etc.

<p align="center">
  <img src=".github/assets/port-kill.gif" alt="PortKiller Demo" width="400">
</p>

## Features

- **Menu Bar Integration** - Lives in your menu bar, no Dock icon clutter
- **Port Discovery** - Automatically finds all listening TCP ports
- **Process Info** - Shows process name and PID for each port
- **Quick Kill** - One-click process termination
- **Kill All** - Terminate all listed processes at once
- **Auto-Refresh** - Updates port list every 5 seconds
- **Search** - Filter by port number or process name
- **Graceful Kill** - Tries SIGTERM first, then SIGKILL if needed

## Requirements

- macOS 15.0+ (Sequoia)
- Apple Silicon Mac (M1/M2/M3/M4)

## Installation

### Download (Recommended)

Download the latest DMG from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/productdevbook/port-killer/releases):

1. Download `PortKiller-vX.X.X-arm64.dmg`
2. Open the DMG file
3. Drag PortKiller to your Applications folder
4. Launch from Applications or Spotlight

### macOS Security Notice

Since PortKiller is not signed with an Apple Developer certificate, macOS will show a security warning on first launch. Here's how to open it:

**Method 1: Right-Click (Easiest)**
1. Right-click (or Control-click) on PortKiller in Applications
2. Select "Open" from the context menu
3. Click "Open" in the dialog that appears

**Method 2: System Settings**
1. Try to open PortKiller normally (it will be blocked)
2. Open **System Settings** → **Privacy & Security**
3. Scroll down to find the message about PortKiller being blocked
4. Click **"Open Anyway"**
5. Enter your password if prompted
6. Launch PortKiller again

**Method 3: Terminal**
```bash
xattr -d com.apple.quarantine /Applications/PortKiller.app
```

> ⚠️ **Note**: This is a one-time setup. After allowing it once, PortKiller will open normally.

### Build from Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/productdevbook/port-killer.git
cd port-killer

# Build the app bundle
./scripts/build-app.sh

# Copy to Applications
cp -r .build/release/PortKiller.app /Applications/

# Launch
open /Applications/PortKiller.app
```

## Usage

1. Click the network icon in the menu bar
2. See all open ports with their process names
3. Click the ✕ button to kill a specific process
4. Use "Kill All" to terminate all listed processes
5. Search by port number or process name

## How It Works

PortKiller uses `lsof` to find all processes listening on TCP ports:

```bash
lsof -iTCP -sTCP:LISTEN -P -n
```

When you kill a process, it first tries a graceful termination (SIGTERM), then forces it (SIGKILL) if needed.

## Development

```bash
# Debug build
swift build

# Release build
swift build -c release

# Run directly
swift run PortKiller

# Open in Xcode
open Package.swift
```

### Project Structure

```
Sources/
├── PortKillerApp.swift       # App entry point
├── Managers/
│   ├── PortManager.swift     # State management
│   └── PortScanner.swift     # Port scanning (lsof)
├── Models/
│   └── PortInfo.swift        # Data model
└── Views/
    └── MenuBarView.swift     # Main UI
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please read our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) before submitting a Pull Request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
